hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions this problem
caused a lot of controversy online could
you do the SATs question that made
pupils cry this problem was given to
year six students in England who were
aged 11 years old in the following
diagram made two straight line cuts
along the gridlines which divide the
rectangle into three shapes you want two
squares of different sizes in one
rectangle pause the video if you'd like
to give it a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem you
might get started by making two cuts in
this grid you'll notice it divides the
rectangle into four shapes and two cuts
usually make four shapes so this caused
a lot of confusion how are you supposed
to make two cuts which only result in
three shapes well you have to be a
little creative and as I like to say you
have to think inside the box what if you
made one cut after the other cut to get
started notice that there are five
squares here
so let's make our first cut so that we
have a five by five square we'll make
the cut here now we'll separate this
shape so we have one shape which is a
five by five square and now we'll make
the remaining cut along this following
rectangle this is two squares wide so
we'll make the cut here to create a two
by two square we've now created a total
of three shapes and this solves the
problem we've created two squares of
different sizes and we have a rectangle
left over it's a pretty tricky problem
to see on a test with time pressure but
I think is a pretty neat problem because
you have to think a little bit
creatively thanks for watching and for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]